# Introduction

The description of physical processes of sounds or of music and their origins has always been an important and widespread research topic. Already the Greeks, especially Euclid and Archytas, tried to describe the properties of music physically and mathematically, for example the question of the origin of sound and the mathematical description of harmony. The description of the physical laws also serves the understanding of the studied instruments and can help to analyze them more precisely. 

Nowadays, audio signals are mainly analyzed digitally. This analysis is universally applicable and finds appeal in all areas. There are sleep trackers that use the sounds at night to determine the sleep phase, AI voice assistants that respond to mood or systems that can detect malfunctions in mechanical components. There are a variety of character styles that can be extracted from an audio signal. These characteristics are mostly abstract data describing the audio signal.

Generative art or process art is a form of contemporary avant-garde art developed in the 1960s based on the ideas of minimal art and performance art. This art form is mostly digitally generated and expresses itself in abstract images, videos or animations. Early on, the industry adopted these systems and let generative do the work of architects, game designers and engineers. For the creation of a generative work it needs certain input data, which are mostly generated randomly under framework conditions.

This thesis deals with generating this input data from an audio signal. Randomness also plays an important role here. It is randomly selected which generative system is used, once this system is initialized it continues to use the audio signal as input data. 

## Motivation

Generative System is becoming more and more popular and its techniques are used for live performances, art exhibitions but also commercial purposes. In the past Artist used many creative approaches and algorithmes to create Images, Music and Videos. The modern Day approaches lean more towards 3D renderings and physical machines. The demands for computers have also changed, complex 3D renderings are in need of heavy computational power and optimizations. This is especially true for live performances and realtime generation. Artists strive for new tools to communicate there vision and try to find new ways of developing there own style. Long standing techniques like the Mandelbrot do not qualify for this anymore. So the Mandelbulb is the next iteration of this famous algorithm, featuring complex 3D scenes and endless artworks with a high grade of Detail. Artists see Generative Art as a tool in there toolbox next to the brush and the Canvas. These systems are able to Generate an endless amount of artworks within a given style. These artworks are mostly created by using controlled randomness.


## Goals

For this Bachelor thesis I will create a system that generated data-driven 3D real time artworks. The system can be accessed through a native application that runs on every major desktop operating system. The artworks will be generated by layering 3D Models, Textures and Particle Effects. These artworks will be created semi randomly, incoming audio signal is anaylzed and based on the audio features the will be affected. This includes Camera position, Animation speeds and general Asset properties. These System will be designed in a way that makes it suitable for live audio / visual performances with a low setup cost. Therefore the user interaction will be kept to a minimum and this will mostly be a plug and play system.

For the artworks, there shall be some degree of variance to it. However since the artworks are created by a system using models and premade textures there is a certain degree on how much it will differ each time. The goal here is not to create algorithmic art that creates art purely out of code but rather to control a generative system with audio signals that comes with its own assets. To use this system in a live audio / video performance the artist would need to use its own models and textures to create a unique style since the base version of this application does only come with generic assets. 

In addition the system shall be designed to be easily extensible using Unity3D. Artist who have modelling and some programming skills shall be able to create and load there own models to create a unique composition. Additionally the system shall be build with performance in mind. Finally the system will be loosely coupled to make it easily extensible and allow other data sources to be used for the artworks.

## Structure

In the next chapters basics like Generative Art techniques, Audio Analysis and related work will be covered. The last chapters of this thesis will focus on the requirements, the design and implementation and will finish of with a retrospect. In the retrospect alternatives and possible future work is discussed.
